Hanisya Massey, the owner of Higher Ground Enterprises in Covina, Calif., first heard from a lawyer for Higher Ground Productions early this summer.

Barack and Michelle Obama wanted to trademark their company’s name, but the United States Patent and Trademark Office had deemed it too similar to the mark Ms.
Massey registered in 2017 for her computer training company. Higher Ground Productions was looking to strike a deal.

So began the dispute, which escalated from an initial note sent by the Obamas’ lawyer to requests by Ms. Massey for onscreen roles in their productions and, now, an attempt by the former president and first lady’s company to have Ms. Massey’s trademark wiped off the books.

The case isn’t expected to slow the Obamas’ post-presidency plans to break into the entertainment business — or to prevent them from using the name.
The first film from their Netflix deal, “American Factory,” has already been released on the streaming site, and more content is in the works.

The Obamas landed on Higher Ground, inspired by the Stevie Wonder song of the same name. But Ms. Massey got the name first.

Higher Ground Enterprises started training people to use computers more than 10 years ago, Ms. Massey said.
Her inspiration for the name stems from her clients, who she said wanted to be on a “higher playing field.” Now, Ms. Massey said, her company’s services include consulting, photography, videography, e-books and other learning materials.
It was her father who encouraged her to trademark Higher Ground Enterprises, telling Ms. Massey, “you just never know.”

The Obamas’ Higher Ground Productions has successfully found resolutions with other similar trademark holders, the company’s trademark lawyer, Jim Vana, said in a statement.
But with Ms. Massey’s company, the Obamas have hit a snag.

Ms. Massey and her lawyer, Larry Zerner, came back with a proposal to sell the mark — in exchange for what Mr. Vana called “significant demands,” including appearances in the Obamas’ TV and film productions.

Ms. Massey referred all questions about proposed terms to her lawyer, who confirmed that acting roles for Ms. Massey were part of her suggested deal.
